BASIC MECHANICS

Hit Points(HP):
Player hit points. If doped to 0 player dies.

Psi Points(PP):
Required for using Psionic powers.

Action Points(AP):
Required for doing any actions.



Basic Haracter Statistics:
Hit Points(HP): 10
Psi Points(PP): 0
Action Points(AP): 3

Strength(STR): 0
Endurance(END): 0
Agility(AGI): 0
Cybernetic Affinity(CYB): 0
Psionic Ability(PSI): 0


SHOOTING:
Total accuracy for Standard Weapons type is: total_accuracy = (Std_weapons_skill)+(std_weapon_range)+(other_modifier)
Chance to hit target is: hit_chance = (total_accuracy-distance_to_target)
hit_chance is can be maximum of 6 and minimum of 0;
Roll k6 dice to determine if target was hit: if dice result is greater than hit_chance it means shooter has missed.

Accuracy example:
Player has Standard weapons on Lvl 2 and Shotgun(range 3) so, overall accuracy is 5.
If Hybrid is exacly 5 squares away from player has 5/6 chances to hit it.
Roll k6 dice. If result is lesser than 6, it means target was hit.

If Hybrid is closer than 5 quares pllayer has 100% to hit (or still 5/6? it need to be discussed).
If Hybrid is 7 squares away from it means player has 3/6 chances to hit it.
10 squares away means player can't hit target

MELEE COMBAT:
The same as shooting but Agility stat is used in place for weapon range.
Player can use 1 AP point per enemy, to decrease their chance for succesful hit by 1.


Acouraceing shot
Player can use 1 additional AP point per shot, to increase his accuracy by 1.


HACKING:
Hacking strenght is: hacking_strenght = (hacking_skill)+(cybernetic_affinity)+(other_modifier)
Hackable items has it difficulty level, Hacking skill requirements and nanites costs.
Hacking takes 2 turns.

Example:
Player want to hack security terminal for temporary disable turrets and cameras.
Security terminal require level 1 hacking skill. It difficulty is 5 and hacking it cost 3 nanites.
Player has level 2 hacking skill and 1 cybernetic affinity, that means hacking_strenght = 3;
So player roll a k6 dice and adding a result to his hacking_strenght. 
If (hacking_strenght + k6_dice_result) will be greater then Security terminal difficulty it means hacking succes.
Equals means failure witout damaging security station.
Less means failure and security station will need repair before next atempt to hack.


MODIFYING:
The same as Hacking.
Failure can broke item on the same rules as for hacking.
Firs modification is required before making second modification.
Hacking takes 2 turns.


REPEARING:
The same as Hacking, but failure do nothing(you just lose nanites and time).
Hacking takes 2 turns.


RESEARCHING:
Reserchable items has it's skill level and chemical requirements. It also need certain amount of time.

Example: Hybrid organ has requirements of reasearch skill levl 1, basic chemicals and time 6 turns.
Player has reasearch skill 1, and cybernetic_affinity 2.
Reserach time is decreased by reasearch skill and cybernetic affinity. 6 - 1 -2 = 3.
If player has basic chemicals and hybrid organ, he will need 2 turns to reserach it.
***Minimum time for compleate reserach is 2 turns.***


Inventory size:
Each player have place for 1 weapon, 1 armor and 2 inventory slots.
Each weapon and large item takes 1 inventory slot.
Each armor takes 2 inventory slots if not equiped.
Each exceeded inventory slot reduces Player Action Points by 1.


Player death:
On Square where player has died should be placed dead body coin which contain all player items.
If daying player has enought nanites, then he will spawn on nerest Quantum Bio-Reconstruction Machine.

Quantum Bio-Reconstruction Machine:
Reconstruction costs 15N.
Can be broken.
Require skill 2, Nanite 2, Diffiulty 5.
Must be actived before use.
Activation time 2AP.



DAMAGE TYPES:
Standard
Energy
Fire
Psi
Biological



CALCULATING DAMAGE AMOUNT:
Every attack has specific damage type.
Every armor or enemy has its own specyfic resistances.
Taken damage is reduced by resistance of the same type.
MINIMUM AMOUNT OF DAMAGE IS CAPPED AT 1.
Notation " 3x 2 Standard " tells  that, there are 3 shots of 2 damage each (of standard damage type).

Examples:
Player is shooting with Laser Pistol to Protocol Droid:
Laser Pistol has damage of 2 and Protocol Droid has -2 Energy resistance.

damage		resistane	result
	2 	- 	(-2) 		= 4 	so Protocol Droid looses 4 hit points.

Hybrid shoot with shotgun to player equipped with Heavy Armor:
Shotgun has 3 shots 2 damage each and Heavy Armour has 3 Standard resistance.

damage		resistane	result
	2 	- 	(3) 		= 1 	1 because minimum amount of damage is capped at 1.
There are 3 shots, so player looses 3 hit points.





Creating Character:
Choose Class training card, pick one bonus from each training year.




Deploying creatures and Creature Points:
GM acquire Creature points at start of his turn.
Every Creature has it's Creature points cost. Game Master pays BCP and MCP to deploy
creature of his choice. Every threat level has creatures amount and type restrictions. 

Creatures can NOT be deployed at field of players view, nor in same room and closer 
than 5 squares to any of player.

Additionaly Eggs need at last one square space between each.

GM can deploy only one crature per turn.

Before game start, Game Master revice some BCP and MCP (amount depends on scenario)
for deploy some creatures (which one can be deployed is defined by scenario).
Then, after game starts, Game Master recive Creature Points every 2 turns - which amount
depends on current Threat Level. Game Master also recive 1 BCP per 2 turns by every 5 alive 
eggs(of any kind) deployed on map.
Game Master also recive BCP and MCP from some Action Cards.




Setting up game:
Players and GM choose scenario and then they going by it's instruction:
1. Createing characters and chose or get starting equipment and skills.
2. Placing pieces of map together.
3. Plae every items(doors, serchable objects, stationary items) on the map.
4. GM placeing firsts monsters.
5. Game starts by plyer turn.



Gameplay:
Players and GM playing their turns one by another.
For every 2 turns Action Card is drawen and GM gains Creature points.
For every 4 turns Threat level is increasing.
Game finishs when players or GM realizes their targets which are defined by scenario or
every player is dead and Bio-Reconstruction is not possible.



Light Level:
-Dark rooms
Dark rooms are marked by "Dark room token"
Shooting accouracy is reduced by 2 points. 

-Full dark room / Broken lights
Fully dark rooms are marked by "No light token"
Shooting accouracy is reduced by 5 points.
Moving takes 2 times more AP.




Cameras:
Cameras have alarm initiation time of 3 turns.
Every time when when player is in Camera field of view alarm initiation time is decreased by 1 per turn.
Security alarm is triggered on when camera initiation time drops to 0.
Camera initiation time increase by 1 per turn, when there are no player in field of view.

-Security Alarms
Alarm duration 12 turns.
During Security Alarm Game Master recive additional 1/2 Creature Points of Current Threat Level per turn, rounded up.
Example: Threat level is 5, so BCP 3 /2  =2(rounded up) and MCP 2 /2 =1, thats mean GM recive 2 BCP and 1 MCP per turn.
During Security Alarm Threat Level IS NOT INCREASING.
All security turrets are actived immiedietly.
*****Every Crature deployed during Secourity Alarm immmiedietly know players positions.
Secourity Alarm can be deactived by hacking any Security station or Advanced Security station.




Cyber Modules and Skills:
-To acquire new skills or increase level of already owned, players must pay specified amount of Cyber Modules(CM's).
The same for Stats, Psionic Tiers and Psionic Skills. 
-Some Cyber Modules are given to the player at the start of the game in amount defined by scenario, Training Card
or depends on amount of players.
CM are also acquired by players during game by acompleating scenariom objectives.
Buying skills and stats:
-Conception 1:
	Players can spend their CM's immiediately whenever they wants.
-Conception 2:
	Players can spend their CM's only in front of specific stationary devices called "Upgrade Units".


Actions:
Searching:
	If player is in front of serchable object (like dead body or container) he can perform searching action to find some loot.
	Player is doing 2 dice rolls. First determines from which set, loot will be drawen. Second determines which set of items will be acquired. 
	Example:
		Player perform searching action in front of Engineer dead body. Result of first roll is 5, that means, loot will be drawen from "Engineer dead body 5" set.
		Result of second roll is 1, that means player found "Hazard Suit" and loots from field "Always" (in this case these are "Strength Hypo" and 10 Nanites).

	Search action takes 1 turn. 
	Serchable objects diseapear after 1 searching action (exception if player has Scavenger O/S Upgrade).
	If there is only 3 sets of serchable object type, then devide result of secnd roll by 2 and round up result.
	If there is onlu 1 set, then first dice roll is skipped.

Opening doors:
    Standatd Doors:
        Opening is perfomed automatically when any player or any creature is in front of them.
        Opening takes 1 turn.
    Door with lock, Advanced lock or Seurity lock:
        Using lock mechanism require succesful hacking, having security card(Seurity lock)
        or other action(could depends on Scenario).
        Using lock mechanism takes takes 2AP.
        Opening takes 1 turn.
        Once unlocked, they can be opened by any creature.
    Once opened, doors are removed from map.



-acquireing Pipe(weapon)




Types of scenarios:
-Players vs Game Master
-Players in "SinglePlayer" scenario (without GM).
-Roleplaying game where GM is not in opossition to players.


